.TH osexec "1" "January 9, 2021" "" "osexec manual"

.SH NAME
osexec - OScript interpreter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B osexec
[--[no]-context] [--[no]-colors]
[-D|--define
.I name
]
.RS
[-S|--source
.I
type
] [-O|--old-version]
[-w|--warnings]
.br
[-s|--silent] [-v|--verbose]
[-p|--performance]
.br
[-V|--version] [-h|--help] [
.I file
]
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B
osexec is an interpreter executing OScript programs from source code.

.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP "--[no]-context"
show near source as error context. defaults to true
.B
.IP "--[no]-colors"
enable colors in the terminal. default is auto
.B
.IP "-D|--define name"
define a named value for preprocessor
.B
.IP "-S|--source type"
source type is object, script or dump. defaults to script
.B
.IP "-O|--old-version"
expect an old version of OScript. defaults to false
.B
.IP "-w, --warnings"
consider warnings as failures too
.B
.IP "-s, --silent"
suppress output
.B
.IP "-v|--verbose"
print error stacktrace
.B
.IP "-p|--performance"
print parsing timing
.B
.IP "-V, --version"
print version number
.B
.IP "-h, --help"
print usage instructions

.RE
If no file name is provided, standard input will be read. If no source type
is provided, it will be inferred from the file extension: ".os" -> object,
".e|lxe" -> script, ".osx" -> dump. The source type object will enable the
new OScript language and source type dump the old one by default.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B
.IP "echo 'echo(""foo"")' | osexec -S script"
Executes a script from the standard input.
.B
.IP "osexec -w foo.e"
Executes a script from a file.

.SH BUGS
osexec's bug tracker is located at <https://github.com/prantlf/oscript-parser/issues>

.SH DOCUMENTATION
See the website for documentation <https://github.com/prantlf/oscript-parser/tree/master/pkg/interpreter#readme>

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Ferdinand Prantl <prantlf@gmail.com>
