.TH oslint "1" "January 3, 2021" "" "oslint manual"

.SH NAME
oslint - OScript syntax checker

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oslint
[--[no]-context] [--[no]-colors]
.br
[-D|--define
.I name
] [-S|--source
.I
type
] [-O|--old-version]
.br
[-t|--tokenize] [-c|--compact] [-e|--errors-only]
.br
[-w|--warnings] [-s|--silent] [-v|--verbose]
.br
[-p|--performance] [-V|--version] [-h|--help]
[
.I file
]
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B
oslint is a syntax checker for OScript programs.

.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP "--[no]-context"
show near source as error context. defaults to true
.B
.IP "--[no]-colors"
enable colors in the terminal. default is auto
.B
.IP "-D|--define name"
define a named value for preprocessor
.B
.IP "-S|--source type"
source type is object, script or dump. defaults to script
.B
.IP "-O|--old-version"
expect an old version of OScript. defaults to false
.B
.IP "-t|--tokenize"
print tokens instead of AST
.B
.IP "-c, --compact"
print without indenting and whitespace
.B
.IP "-e, --errors-only"
print only files that failed the check
.B
.IP "-w, --warnings"
consider warnings as failures too
.B
.IP "-s, --silent"
suppress output
.B
.IP "-v|--verbose"
print error stacktrace
.B
.IP "-p|--performance"
print parsing timing
.B
.IP "-V, --version"
print version number
.B
.IP "-h, --help"
print usage instructions

.RE
If no file name is provided, standard input will be read. If no source type
is provided, it will be inferred from the file extension: ".os" -> object,
".e" -> script, ".osx" -> dump. The source type object will enable the new
OScript language and source type dump the old one by default.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B
.IP "echo 'foo = ""bar""' | oslint -S script"
Print the AST of a code snippet.
.B
.IP "oslint -p foo.os"
Print the compact list of tokens for the code in the file.

.SH BUGS
oslint's bug tracker is located at <https://github.com/prantlf/oscript-parser/issues>

.SH DOCUMENTATION
See the website for documentation <https://prantlf.github.io/oscript-parser/>

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Ferdinand Prantl <prantlf@gmail.com>
