.TH osparse "1" "January 3, 2021" "" "osparse manual"

.SH NAME
osparse - OScript parser

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B osparse
[--[no]-tokens] [--[no]-preprocessor] [--[no]-comments]
.RS
[--[no]-whitespace] [--[no]-locations] [--[no]-ranges]
.br
[--[no]-raw] [--[no]-raw-identifiers] [--[no]-raw-literals]
.br
[--[no]-context] [--[no]-colors]
.br
[-D|--define
.I name
] [-S|--source
.I
type
] [-O|--old-version]
.br
[-t|--tokenize] [-c|--compact] [-w|--warnings] [-s|--silent]
.br
[-v|--verbose] [-p|--performance] [-V|--version] [-h|--help]
.br
[
.I file
]
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B
osparse is a parser producing JSON-formatted Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) or just tokens for OScript programs.

.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP "--[no]-tokens"
include lexer tokens. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-preprocessor"
include preprocessor directives. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-comments"
include comments. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-whitespace"
include whitespace. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-locations"
store locations of parsed nodes. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-ranges"
store start and end token ranges. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-raw"
store raw identifiers and literals. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-raw-identifiers"
store raw identifiers only. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-raw-literals"
store raw literals only. defaults to false
.B
.IP "--[no]-context"
show near source as error context. defaults to true
.B
.IP "--[no]-colors"
enable colors in the terminal. default is auto
.B
.IP "-D|--define name"
define a named value for preprocessor
.B
.IP "-S|--source type"
source type is object, script or dump. defaults to script
.B
.IP "-O|--old-version"
expect an old version of OScript. defaults to false
.B
.IP "-t|--tokenize"
print tokens instead of AST
.B
.IP "-c, --compact"
print without indenting and whitespace
.B
.IP "-w, --warnings"
consider warnings as failures too
.B
.IP "-s, --silent"
suppress output
.B
.IP "-v|--verbose"
print error stacktrace
.B
.IP "-p|--performance"
print parsing timing
.B
.IP "-V, --version"
print version number
.B
.IP "-h, --help"
print usage instructions

.RE
If no file name is provided, standard input will be read. If no source type
is provided, it will be inferred from the file extension: ".os" -> object,
".e" -> script, ".osx" -> dump. The source type object will enable the new
OScript language and source type dump the old one by default.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B
.IP "echo 'foo = ""bar""' | osparse --no-comments -S script"
Print the AST of a code snippet.
.B
.IP "osparse -t foo.os"
Print the list of tokens for the code in the file.

.SH BUGS
osparse's bug tracker is located at <https://github.com/prantlf/oscript-parser/issues>

.SH DOCUMENTATION
See the website for documentation <https://github.com/prantlf/oscript-parser#readme>

.SH AUTHOR
Currently maintained by Ferdinand Prantl <prantlf@gmail.com>
